I don't want to set the world on fire
for the third time we're reminded that
war never changes but fallout has the
post-apocalyptic RPGs jumped coasts to
DC dimensions to 3d perspective to
first-person and platforms to include
consoles it's all delivered by Bethesda
which bestowed the high fantasy oblivion
a few years back will the newest Exodus
from the vaults live up to its pedigree
or should have just done a cover be
prepared to take on the wasteland from
cradle to grave actually even earlier
with the game starting at your very own
birth from there you experienced a
truncated adolescents living in vault
101 a huge underground fallout shelter
where generations have lived and died
shielded from the radiation and
desperation of the outsides after the
bomb challenges it does a good job of
masking character creation shoehorning
you in some tutorials and setting the
scene of vault life when you turn 19 you
wake up to discover your father missing
and his friend murdered by the
tyrannical overseer of the vault it
makes perfect sense to hightail it out
of there and go questing for dear old
dad in the morbid violent world beyond
the blast doors
it's a simple premise that quickly
becomes complicated with tons of
questions and objectives even the side
quests are beefy like little novellas
that spiral out into full works of their
own
oh my aren't you a stud there's some
occasional if you riding but for the
most part it's a quality tale boy and
his dog and some super mutants fallout 3
is massive and once through the
streamlined vault opening on the world
becomes your mutated oyster you can
transfer the wastes in search of fame
and fortune stumbling upon hundreds of
locations enemies and treacherous
terrain exploration can be overwhelming
with so much to scavenge kill and loot
the pockets of civilization are also
there to bequeath quests offer a contour
as your head or provide shops and
doctors who offer services and enticing
narcotics just don't get addicted what
do you need your quests team up with
your pip-boy a combination PD a
flashlight and FM radio supply Maps
track points and objectives so when
you're hell-bent on chipping away
progress you'll have a guiding light
quests are multifaceted large and span
across several locations along the way
you'll have to deal with plenty of
enemies locked doors and computer
terminals this is where skills come in
and leveling which allows you to do
things like getting an attribute point
or getting special dialogue options with
the opposite sex that's disgusting
I'm old enough to be your grandmother
this is also where you improve skills
that range from lock-picking to handling
weapons the game is so vast that the
biggest problem is that it can all
become overwhelming without the ability
to mark your map it's hard to remember
where each high-level lock or a group of
super-powered enemies is it's a rich
world of content without multiple
playthroughs using different character
types it's hard to see it all a very
flexible system does let you play
what-if but there are a few games with
as much play per dollar as Fallout 3
while the majestic dread of the badlands
and its d-pod rafi of Secrets is
simultaneously charming and intimidating
it's how you operate that cinches the
deal for the most part your stats
observations and resolve will steer the
course of events through handy
context-sensitive button presses dodging
into the shadows turns the talk option
into pickpocket while minigames present
the challenge of a lock tumbler or
secure terminal combat is handled
through either real-time altercations or
with vats which allows strategic
targeting and is as simple as choosing a
target and a body part it's
straightforward and it works while
rewarding you with some sweet
third-person murder cam shots these mini
vignettes are occasionally garbled if
you're too close and can't be skipped
which can be annoying when you just want
to finish the fight beware you can only
target the head so many times though
since it's all governed by action points
the other side of thats is that while it
slows down time enemies can't still be
mulling or shooting you albeit in
slow-mo so shoot from the hip or rely on
vats
either way is balanced and you'll be
switching between the two to keep things
from getting stale just get one thing
straight though all the footage released
up to launch looked otherwise this isn't
a first-person shooter will be circle
strafing more like a gentleman's duel
bloody gentlemen's duel there's some
manual cover taking in strategic
reloading but fallout 3 doesn't have the
celerity for twitchy action that's not
to say that true aim with a sniper rifle
won't make vats eat it shorts there's
nourishment and health everywhere though
it's equally balanced with the rate you
become radiated third-person view is
here to see how you've customized your
character but it's not a valid way to
play the game whether you're in combat
or traipsing through irradiated Chevy
Chase Maryland the level of perks ensure
character growth beyond doling out skill
points and the dark tongue-in-cheek
humor provides a reprieve from brutal
wasteland justice give me the naughty
nightmare and while the non sequiturs
are welcomed when something else breaks
the reality
it shows the chinks in the power armor
from the shiny sheen of power armor to
the shrub on the dejected Hill the
visuals drip with atmosphere set pieces
are reused quite a bit and the depravity
does eventually start to look the same
but still there are tons of unique areas
and the people that populate them
usually if something to say or at least
a pocket to pick the populace generally
comes across strong though it seems the
uncanny valley might be in DC with
unblinking eyes and some odd movements
hello the music from your pip-boy has
some classy numbers from the 30s while
the score and sound design are always
appropriate all these positives make it
even more painful one of the game's many
glitchy buggy moments arise still it's a
pretty damn convincing world any
preconceived notions about this
post-apocalyptic fallout 3 is not
another Gears of War or halo overcome
and embrace but there's a constant flow
of surprises and excellence packed into
this RPG everything is set at such a
high caliber that the negligible flaws
and inconsistencies come across as much
larger blemishes than in most games but
they can't tarnish the overall
experience don't wait for the wasteland
just hit the road
you